Health minister Joe Phaahla  has proposed scrapping the coronavirus regulations that require mask wearing indoors, limit the size of gatherings and stipulate testing and vaccination requirements for travellers to SA. These last remaining regulations have been heavily criticised by the tourism and leisure sector for their continued effect on businesses struggling to regain a footing after more than two years of restrictions. In a leaked memo to health MECs, dated June 20, the minister said SA had exited the recent spike in cases, or fifth wave, which the current regulations were promulgated to mitigate. The authenticity of the memo was verified by a senior health official. The regulations, published in the government gazette on May 4, were brought in at a time when new cases were rapidly rising, and the status of the epidemic was “very concerning and unpredictable”, the minister said. Between mid-April and May 1 the daily case count had soared from less than 250 cases a day to 4,693. At the time, two new sub-lineages of the omicron variant, BA.4 and BA.5, were dominating transmission, and it was not clear whether behaviour change or these sub-lineages were driving the surge in cases. It was now clear that it was the latter, said Phaahla. The latest epidemiological analysis indicated that as of mid-June, there was a decline in the key indicators monitored by the National Institute of Communicable Diseases. These included the number of cases, hospital admissions and deaths, as well as a decline in the effective reproductive rate to below 0.7% and a drop in the test positivity rate. The health department had consulted the National Coronavirus Command Council on the morning of June 20 and proposed the regulations for mask wearing and gatherings, and port of entry limitations no longer needed to be in place, the minister said in the memo. The recommendations would be discussed with the cabinet in the next 48-72 hours, he said. Western Cape premier Alan Winde, who three weeks ago asked President Cyril Ramaphosa to urgently convene the presidential co-ordinating council to discuss lifting the regulations, said the body was scheduled to meet on Wednesday morning. “Finally, we may now see an end to all Covid-19 curbs, as I have consistently called for. But it has to be emphasised, it is disappointing that it has taken so long,” he said in a statement. Western Cape data indicated the regulations, which were initially implemented to slow transmission and prevent the health system from being overwhelmed, were no longer required, he said. “The most perfect example of the impact of these restrictions, and a reminder of the great potential of public events, was this past weekend’s United Rugby Championship final, staged at the world-class Cape Town Stadium. While it was great to see the stands fuller, many more Stormers and Bulls fans could have been welcomed inside had the restrictions been dropped earlier,” he said. The health department was not immediately available to comment. The Institute of Race Relations, which has been lobbying for an end to the coronavirus restrictions, said there was an urgent need to get the economy “firing on all cylinders” as 55% of people aged between 24 and 34 were not in employment, education or training. “If people want to mask and vaccinate and avoid packed stadiums they are most welcome to do so. The notion that shutting down business to bend other people into the same mould has long been proven ineffective in a country where almost everyone has been infected. Freedom needs a comeback,” the IRR’s head of campaigns, Gabriel Crouse, said. kahnt@businesslive.co.za