SA’s largest grocer Shoprite, which reported its highest ever operating margin in a first half-year is on an expansion drive opening baby goods, pet and standalone pharmacy stores that will put it in competition with Clicks and Dis-Chem, while s it steals market share from other grocers. Its expanding 1000 square metre standalone MediRite pharmacies, that were previously in Checkers stores and opening stores named Baby Me even as Click and Dis-Chem have both expanded into the baby market. . Shoprite, that has been stealing market share from competitors for 34 consecutive months declared an interim dividend of 233c which, 22 % higher than the comparable period on the back of 25.5% rise in first-half profits on Tuesday. This was even after civil unrest in KwaZulu-Natal and parts of Gauteng affected 231 of its stores. Total sales of merchandise rose 10% to a heady R91bn, boosted mainly by its core SA supermarket segment, where the group made inroads in the middle to upper-end of the market. The group has seen Checkers sales grow ___ as it targets the higher end customer with a focus on fresh food and remodelled stores that have Kauai and Starbucks counters. CEO Pieter Engelbrect who would not be drawn on if it was edging in on Woolworths turf saying merely  it was stealing from “all competitors” which would include Pick n Pay and Spar. In its bid to grow the upper and higher-end footprint, Shoprite is opened 12 Pet Science stores. with nine more planned this financial 2022 year. Pet ownership boomed during Covid-19 lockdowns as people spent more time at home. Engelbrecht told Business Day the manufacturers of high-end pet food years ago decided not to sell their food in mainstream retailers in order not to have to discount it too heavily. Instead, branded pet food is available at a premium price at pet stores and vets. This led Shoprite to look at buying a pet chain, but ultimately decided to open its own standalone pet stores. Woolworths last week announced is also planning to add a pet range. Shoprite  is also increasing its standalone 1000 square metre Medirite pharmacies that previously were only part of existing Checkers stores. Asked if its expansion was competing with Clicks, a  retail stock, Englebregct said that is “exactly what it is". Engelbrecht said he didn't think five years ago he would sell R30 000 in baby goods to a single consumer, but it decided not to decide what consumers are willing to spend on their babies- or their pets but just to provide the goods. Shoprite and Usave brands, making 56% of turnover, aimed at the low income mass market grew over 7.3% likely boosted by the roll out of R350 Covid-19 grants. Engelbrecht would not be drawn on how much the R350 grants, extended for more year have boosted sales but said after grants are paid consumers have a choice on where to spend money and he believes they choose Shoprite. Sales in Angola and Zambia are expected to do well on the back of rising oil and copper prices. Shoprite has closed or sold business in Uganda, Kenya and Madagascar.. Despite rising inflation, its internal price inflation was just below 2.5% operating margin reached 6% the highest ever for a first half. By contrast, Walmart’s margin is 3%. Woolworths Foods, which is more expensive, is between 7% and 8%. SA saw a 40% increase in petrol price in the past six months but Shoprite has kept fuel inflation, much lower in part using solar powered refrigeration to power refrigerated trucks instead of using diesel to power the fridges. The group who subsidises consumers by selling a million R5 bread loaves a week  is expecting food price inflation in the next six months. Engelbrecht was asked how much by an investor what he expected price inflation to be and said due to the war in Ukraine he could not even guess. The war will increase prices of maize and vegetable oil and wheat that Ukraine exports. Shoprite has just cancelled 34 containers coming on the Black Sea near Ukraine and 9 of these were coming out of the Ukraine, one of world largest wheat producers. Record maize harvest  means SA has enough supply but with prices set internationally and rising due to war prices of the basic foodstuff will increase in SA. Inflation Ukraine The group is far outperforming peers. Woolworths CEO Roy Bagattini explained its flattish revenue because it was not expanding Wooworlths foods and was relying primarily on same store growth. However Shoprite; SA like for growth excluding all new stores was up 9% showing its growth is not depending on expansion and new markets. Massmart that saw a decline in sales at Game spoke in detail of the impact of riots, in which it lost two warehouses and left it with a R650m bill. However, Shoprite, whose losses were fully covered by insurance and did not lose warehouses to looting has surpassed competitors in the same environment and riots with _______stores damaged and 7 that will never reopen. LiquorShop sales were up 49.8% due to fewer lockdown restrictions in 2021 and this drove overall sales growth. usinesslive.co.za