Electrical wholesaler and lighting distributor ARB Holdings may delist from the JSE after receiving a R696.8m offer for all of its shares not held by its founding family, the Burkes. Mining veteran Mike Teke’s Masimong group and JSE-listed Sabvest Capital have offered R8 per share for  37% of ARB shares not held by the Burkes, a 21.2% premium to the group’s share price as of December 2, the day before it issued a cautionary announcement. ARB, which is  valued at R1.78bn on the JSE, was founded by Alan Burke in 1980, operating from a shipping container in Richards Bay, with a single employee and a bakkie. The group, which was listed on the JSE in 2007, has a lighting business and also provides electrical cabling and overhead line equipment. Despite ARB’s financially successful track record since listing, no new shares have ever been issued and ARB has limited or no foreseeable need to raise capital through the public markets, the group said. Liquidity of the shares is also an issue, given the size of the founding family’s stake. Small Talk Daily’s Anthony Clark said the offer was fair, and it had only been “a matter of time” before an offer was made, given the size of the Burke family’s stake, and general lack of interest by institutional investors in small cap companies. Many other family-owned companies would probably also be considering delisting from the JSE, said Clark, with the offer to ARB an elegant one, keeping the family in control, while also having long-term investors on board who know how to run a family business. “It takes Sabvest into a brand-new silo, in an area of the economy that has grown. Also, the BEE element of having Masimong in the mix, with  Teke, will aid the underlying credentials of ARB and its ability to supply to Eskom and municipalities,” said Clark. The buyer of the shares is a company specifically established for the transaction, 50.1% held by Masimong, a private investment group founded by Teke in 2013 and controlled by a Teke family trust. Sabvest, which has 49.9%, is an investment group that has been listed on the JSE since 1988 and is controlled by a family trust of its CEO, Chris Seabrooke. The scheme is still subject to shareholder approval, but ARB has already received irrevocable undertakings from 69% of those eligible to vote, including Visio Fund Management, which has just under a fifth of ARB and   over 53% of the voting shares. In afternoon trade on Thursday, ARB’s shares were up 6.21% to R7.70, on track for their best day since December 3, when the cautionary announcement was released and its shares surged 18.18%. The group's shares have more than doubled over the past 12 months. Update: January 27 2022This article has been updated with additional information and industry comment. gernetzkyk@businesslive.co.za