Advanced tech can now improve knowledge retention levels in pupils, as those who study through Boston Online Home Education have discovered. While riding the wave of an ever-changing, tech-savvy world, Boston Online Home Education, an official registered online associate of Cambridge International, can assist learners studying towards their world-class Cambridge education with an advanced AI model that includes adaptive learning, detailed reporting, data analytics and more. This ensures smooth and productive online learning. The AI model While education was already adapting to the way children learn,  Covid-19 fast-tracked this trend. Boston Online Home Education’s world-class online platform was developed using cutting-edge technology and artificial intelligence (known as the AI model). As is so necessary in distance education and home schooling, pupils and parents need to benefit from the best technology in the education industry. Why is there this focus on AI? As can be seen, when studying online or through home schooling, we need personal attention – both technology-based and via human intervention. Students cannot simply be sent text or videos and told to “get on with it”. While technology has taken us to new levels, we need to be hand-held along the way, most especially in a schooling environment. When pursuing the world-class Cambridge curriculum with online learning, it is crucial to have advanced technology to support students’ academic progress, which is why Boston Online Home Education follows this model. This technology, along with constant student support from the dedicated school team, helps safeguard a pupil's academic progress and success.  This article was paid for by the Boston Group. Arena Holdings, the publisher of Business Day, has identified challenges in education and taken steps to fill these gaps by selecting the Boston Group as its education partner in this venture. Boston Online Home Education, which is part of the Boston Group, offers a high school equivalent education programme with a Cambridge International curriculum. Entries close on February 14 2022. Winners will be announced on February 21 2022. Terms and conditions apply.